ROUGH-DRAFT: 


JSSystems II - The Invisible Fruit.
#IMG - JS


Clint Nash - JS Architect
Various areas of study: Video, Musical, GeoSpatial, Financial, InfoSec, Social-Media Systems...
#adaptivepattern

~Studying the variation of JS reveals a variety of ecosystems.
We can call these JS Systems for short.

Recently I categorized a few of the many into a D3 chart.
It looked like this:

#IMG - normal look
#LINK JSSystems

The importance of that study was that it reveals new knowledge that informs methodology.

One example of new knowledge is that we can visualize how JS has grown... and how fast. 


The sheer volume...
#IMG - JS Cluster

The coming Inflection Point...
#IMG - Growth curve one
#Mikeal reference and link.

But the new methodology comes from the analysis of this data.
And one very small part that I will propose to you today.

It starts with the metaphor of Invisible Fruit.
So this is...

JS Systems II
THE INVISIBLE FRUIT

#IMG - four fruits.
All software is an invisible fruit.
We cannot know how it tastes - until we bite in.

This is especially true for new technologies and the open-source community in JS.
We can learn from this metaphor by applying it to reality.
In two specific aspects: Taste and Invisibility.
Here is what I mean...

TASTE - Point 1:
If you bite too aggressively into any new software you may be surprised by a pit.
Or maybe you needed to first peel the fruit, before enjoying it.

TASTE - Point 2:
This causes us to be rightfully hesitant when reviewing new software.
But it is not all bad, because we quickly learn to peel the rind and spit out the pit.
And become capable of exploring new fruit.

TASTE - Point 3:
In JS Systems we can see new innovation capitalize on the lessons of the past.
Producing a new fruit that is for the moment - easier to consume.
prototype -> jQuery, backbone -> Angular, grunt -> gulp, Cordova -> Firefox OS.

These are examples from four (very) different JS Ecosystems.
And if considered a "Fruit" they are in effect...
in reality, very much...
INVISIBLE.
Here is how...

INVISIBLE - Point 1:
Can you tell me how many JS libraries, frameworks, packages, and utilities exist?
As a scientific study - can we count them?
No we can't.

INVISIBLE - Point 2:
I propose to you that the depth and breadth of JS is an unquantifiable number.
The growth of JS is Invisible to our ability to see and also (increasingly) to comprehend.
At some point no one will understand ALL of JS.
And maybe we've already silently passed this point...

INVISIBLE - Point 3:
Because even if we did collect and measure the myriad variety of JS
a new incarnation of the web would surely exist in that time.
This is a continuous process.

Not only can we not quantify what exists now...
But we cannot quantify what existed in the past,
and we cannot quantify the full rate at which JS advances.

Growth curve of NPM Package Contributions through #year
#IMG - predicted growth
By #Mikeal #link

This is only Node.js
The rest of JS is far more abundant.

We can look at GitHub and see contribution growth...
#IMG

But the point here is simply that the vast majority of JS remains unmentioned, and unmeasured.
JS is an invisible fruit.

So what can we learn from this?
How does this impact your life?

1. You have to take a bite of any new technology to get a taste.
       - and this is the natural.
2. You may be surprised by a pit or a peel.
       - but should we obsess on these details?
       - refuting one fruit or dogmatically only eating one other?
3. Because a growing abundance of fruit is clear.
       - and we learn from our past.


So we should be adaptive.
This is a blessing and a curse.

Because it is not your job to complain about the pits and the peels - it is your job to build the fruit salad.

That is... if you are a JavaScript Architect.


~ Please support
JavaScript Computer Science.

THANK YOU!

Clint Nash - @adaptivepattern

I have stickers - come talk to me...













